# QueryModification
Information retrieval system that exploits user-provided relevance feedback to improve the search results returned by Google.

#

In this project, you will implement an information retrieval system that exploits user-provided relevance feedback to improve the search results returned by Google. The relevance feedback mechanism is described in Singhal: Modern Information Retrieval: A Brief Overview, IEEE Data Engineering Bulletin, 2001, as well as in Chapter 9, “Relevance Feedback & Query Expansion,” of the Manning, Raghavan, and Schütze Introduction to Information Retrieval textbook, available online.

User queries are often ambiguous. For example, a user who issues a query [jaguar] might be after documents about the car or the animal, and in fact search engines like Bing and Google return pages on both topics among their top 10 results for the query. In this project, you will design and implement a query-reformulation system to disambiguate queries and improve the relevance of the query results that are produced. Here’s how your system, which should be written in Python, should work:

Receive as input a user query, which is simply a list of words, and a value—between 0 and 1—for the target “precision@10” (i.e., for the precision that is desired for the top-10 results for the query, which is the fraction of pages that are relevant out of the top-10 results).
Retrieve the top-10 results for the query from Google, using the Google Custom Search API (see below), using the default value for the various API parameters, without modifying these default values.
Present these results to the user, so that the user can mark all the webpages that are relevant to the intended meaning of the query among the top-10 results. For each page in the query result, you should display its title, URL, and description returned by Google.
IMPORTANT NOTE: You should display the exact top-10 results returned by Google for the query (i.e., you cannot add or delete pages in the results that Google returns). Also, the Google Custom Search API has a number of search parameters. Please do not modify the default values for these search parameters.
If the precision@10 of the results from Step 2 for the relevance judgments of Step 3 is greater than or equal to the target value, then stop. If the precision@10 of the results is zero, then you should also stop. Otherwise, use the pages marked as relevant to automatically (i.e., with no further human input at this point) derive new words that are likely to identify more relevant pages. You may introduce at most 2 new words during each round. 
IMPORTANT NOTE 1: You cannot delete any words from the original query or from the query from the previous iteration; you can just add words, up to 2 new words in each round. Also, your queries must consist of just keywords, without any additional operators (e.g., you cannot use negation, quotes, or any other operator in your queries). 
IMPORTANT NOTE 2: The order of the words in the expanded query is important. Your program should automatically consider the alternate ways of ordering the words in a modified query, and pick the order that is estimated to be best. In each iteration, you can reorder all words—new and old—in the query, but you cannot delete any words, as explained in the note above.
Modify the current user query by adding to it the newly derived words and ordering all words in the best possible order, as determined in Step 4, and go to Step 2.
The key challenge in the project is in designing Step 4, for which you should be creative and use the ideas that we discussed in class—as well as the above bibliography and the course reading materials—as inspiration. You are welcome to borrow techniques from the research literature at large (either exactly as published or modified as much as you feel necessary to get good performance in our particular query setting), but make sure that you cite the specific publications on which you based your solution. As a hint on how to search for relevant publications, you might want to check papers on “query expansion” in the main IR conference, SIGIR, at https://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/sigir/index.html. If you choose to implement a technique from the literature, you still need to make sure that you adapt the chosen technique as much as necessary so that it works well for our specific query setting and scenario, since you will be graded based on how well your technique works. If you want to do stopword elimination (this is of course optional), you can find a list of stopwords here.

You will use the Google Custom Search API (https://developers.google.com/custom-search/) in this project: this is Google’s web service to enable the creation of customized search engines. Furthermore, the code that you submit for your project must run on the Google Cloud, so it is a good idea to develop your code on a VM on the Google Cloud from the very beginning (see below), rather than writing it on a different platform and then adapting it to the Google Cloud for submission.
